[Music]
hello very good morning to you
welcome to breakfast with roger johnson
and louise minchin good morning our
headlines today on expansion of the
coronavares testing program
everyone in england will have access to
two free rapid tests a week
from this friday boris johnson will give
more details about his plans to further
ease the lockdown in england today
including
a covert passport scheme to restart big
events
we are live at a very empty manchester
airport this morning talking about the
possibility of a foreign holiday
on the horizon with a down in street
announcement later today
lockdown continues to ease in scotland
as garden centers homework shops and
hairdressers all
reopen good morning after a halftime
rocket from their manager manchester
united come from behind to beat brighton
and tighten their grip on second place
in the premier league
actor rhys ahmed who's been oscar
nominated for his portrayal of a drummer
who loses his hearing good morning it's
a much colder day today with a
significant wind chill
with snow showers in the forecast even
down to lower levels
especially so in the north but in
between there will be some sunshine
i'll have only details coming up later
[Music]
it is easter monday april the 5th our
top story today everyone in england will
be offered two free rapid covert tests
each week
from this friday under the government's
plans to expand its testing program
the health secretary matt hancock says
the additional tests will play a crucial
role
in curbing future outbreaks of the virus
as life
returns to normal our health
correspondent jim reid reports
rapid lateral flow tests are already
being used to test secondary school
pupils
families with children and those who
cannot work from home
from the end of the week they will be
offered to everyone in
england these devices give a result in
30 minutes
they can be picked up from a local
testing center or
pharmacy or ordered online and delivered
in the post
even when people have no symptoms they
may be infected and they may be
infectious
and if we can catch those people early
then we can break transmission and that
reduces
the number of people who are infected it
reduces the likelihood of new variants
and it helps keep everybody safer the
government
says the twice weekly tests will be
crucial to help prevent
outbreaks in the future but labour said
the mass testing program must be backed
by improved financial support so those
told to self-isolate
can afford it and some scientists have
questioned the accuracy of the test
especially in people who don't have
symptoms
the tests are not good at ruling out
and saying you don't have covid we have
to be very careful
to get a message to everybody that says
if the test is negative
behave the same way don't believe you
haven't got covered
don't go and kiss and cuddle your granny
or your granddad
because it's not a test which tells us
that it's not a good enough test
the government claims the kits are
extremely accurate
particularly when it comes to
identifying the most infectious cases
in england a new publicity drive will
start this week to try to convince small
people
to make regular testing part of their
weekly routine
in scotland wales and northern ireland
mass testing is also being expanded
in places like offices factories and
care homes
jim reid bbc news the next stage of the
government's plan to ease lockdown
measures in england from april the 12th
is expected to be approved by cabinet
ministers today
yes the prime minister will also give
details of a traffic light system
for restarting international travel and
has plans to trial
covert passports at major sporting
events our political correspondent nick
earley
has more details in a week we should be
seeing this again
in england pubs and restaurants serving
outside
non-essential shops opening their doors
hairdressers
back open those lock down haircuts
finally
brought back under control the cabinet
will meet to discuss the latest data on
coronavirus this morning
and boris johnson will confirm his plans
in a press conference this afternoon
he'll also be talking about holidays but
don't expect firm dates
or a list of where we'll be allowed to
go they're well and future though
be a traffic light system green will
mean you don't have to quarantine or
return to england
amber you'll have to quarantine at home
and red
will mean it's in a government approved
hotel
there will be more information about
covered passports in
england too they're designed to allow
mass spectator events like the fa cup
final
under the plans you'll need to show
either that you've had the vaccine
a recent negative test or that you have
natural immunity
based on having had the virus in the
past six months
the passports won't be used on transport
or in shops at all
and they're not being used in pubs at
the moment but many mps are opposed to
them
some devolved governments have concerns
and there's likely to be a big political
battle
over their use nick early bbc news
well hairdressers and garden centers in
scotland can
reopen from today in the latest easing
of coronavirus restrictions
our salons and barbers can welcome back
customers with appointments only
although most non-essential shops will
have to stay closed for at least
three more weeks here's our scotland
correspondent james
the shaw to finally tame out-of-control
lockdown hair will be something that
many people have been looking forward to
for weeks
if not months if this hair salon in
glasgow is anything to go by
there is enormous pent-up demand
so when we got the first announcement we
opened our books and
we had over a thousand bookings within
the 24 hours so
yeah we were expecting that so it's
crazy busy like but the staff are all
well-rested
and yeah we're going to be open seven
days till eight and night so
long days ahead so yep we're ready
there are still restrictions such as
face coverings and physical distancing
all cuts must be pre-booked and mobile
services are still not allowed
after your haircut you might want to
visit a garden center
homeware store or car showroom
non-essential click and collect is also
permitted
garden centers in particular are likely
to be busy
it'll be good we just need to get the
social distance and measures back in
place
get everything spread out and it'll be
good to see all the customers back
because
even since we've started working in the
place again there's been loads of
customers down at the gate and stuff
ready ready to get back in the garden so
it's just in the neck of time i think
these are all relatively limited changes
the big date in scotland is the 26th of
this month
when all non-essential shops will be
allowed to open
travel throughout scotland will be
permitted up to six people from three
households will be able to socialize
outdoors and hospitality venues will
start to open up
all that is still three weeks away
non-essential travel within local
authority areas
has been allowed since friday but until
the end of the month when all travel
restrictions
are lifted scotland's major roads and
other transport links are likely to stay
relatively quiet james shaw bbc news
glasgow a two-week-old baby boy has died
after his pram was hit by a car
in the west midlands police say the
incident happened on the high street in
browns hill near warsaw about
four o'clock yesterday afternoon the
driver
fled the scene but a 34 year old man was
arrested shortly afterwards
he's been questioned on suspicion of
causing death by dangerous
driving police divers have been deployed
as part of the investigation into the
disappearance of
student richard okaygay the 19 year old
hasn't been seen since 22nd of march
he was last seen walking towards epping
forest aruna aienga has this report
nineteen-year-old richard okaragaye has
been missing for two weeks
he has sickle cell disease and has been
shielding due to coronavirus
since last march he left home without
his medication
he's described by his mother as focused
intelligent
and loved and his disappearance is
completely out of character
police say they're working round the
clock to find richard
police divers have been searching in
areas of water in the woodland of
northeast london
and in epping forest these pictures
released by the police show the last
sighting of richard
around half past midnight on the 23rd of
march
he got out of a taxi in laoton east
london
he's wearing all black and carrying a
black satchel with an adidas white logo
on it
he walks along a residential road called
smart's lane
police say they have records that he
paid for that taxi
earlier he left his family home at 8 30
in the evening on the 22nd of march
15 minutes later he was seen boarding a
number 23 bus
southbound in ladbroke grove
police say richard's mobile phone hasn't
been used since he disappeared
they're appealing to the public for any
help in finding him
anyone who saw him on the 23 bus or
later in the louton area
aruna aienga bbc news
driving licenses among people between
age 16 and 25 in britain have fallen to
their lowest level since records began
in 2012.
the number of full licences held by
young people has dropped by more than
300 000 since march last year and is now
just under 3 million
the aaa has put the fall down to the
coronavirus pandemic
which has prevented lessons and tests
taking place and
as a parent of a teenager of around that
age
i can confirm that that is
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news